ΛΤΒ 186 A'rn “

the Greeks (saniores). The ancients reckoned thet the
circumference of this mountain was about 130 miles, that itpro·
jected its shadow 75 miles, end that theson was seen on its top
two or three hours sooner than at the bottom. 'Ihese asser·
tions greatly exceed the truth. Its height cannot be estimstcd
et more than 4560 feet; of course, the sun will not be visible
et its summit above six orseveu minutes before he can be seen
et the foot of it, or un the plain. From the twenty monaster·
ies which ere upon it, containing four thousand monks, it has de·
n'ved the modern name hiante Sancto, ι’. e, the sacred mountain.
ddus, v. dtlas, intis, uoc. Atle, u king of hlauritfinia, Morocco
and Fue, a country of Africa, to the south of Frdtum Giditi·
num, u. Herculeum, the. Struitof Gibraltar, was e son of lllpd-
tus and Clymene. He had a great number of flocks of every
kind, end to him elso belonged the beautiful ardens so cele·
bratedin antiquity, which contained the golden apples, eud
abounded with every species of fruit, the care of which he eu·
trusted toa dragon. Beiug informed by an oraclo, thate sonof
Jupiter would dethrone him, he refused to Perseus (2 syl), who
pretcudcd to be ason of thut god, the rites of hospitality‚ md
even offered him violence. Perseus (2 syl.), being inferior to
the Mauritaniam king iu strength, showed him the head of M!-
diiso, on which Atlas was changed into a mountain of thesemo
name (IV. 656), which runs across the deserte of Africa from
eust to west, and so high thet the ancients thought the heaveot
rested on its summit. Virgil describes itas covered with per-
petuel snow. The fable of Atlos supporting the heavens most
probably arose from his being the ‘inventor of the Sphere, from
his knowledge of astronomy, and from often observing the mo-
tions of the heavenly bodies on the top of that mountain. At-
las was, from his father, called lkpdtibnldes. Atlintllldes, n
51. 682), Merolidus, the son of Jupiter end Maia (2 ayt), e
aughter of Atlas. Attantttdes, um, the daughters of hilm
seven of whom, from their mother Pleione, received also the
neme of Pierides After death, they were eonverted intua
constellation, in the sign Taurus, under the latter appelletion
Atle'entbi, orum, the people subject to Atlas. Adj. Atlanticus,
Atlanteos, et. nilhominus, a, um. Mllre Athintlcum, the Aaou·
tic Oceau, from its washing the western base of thet mountain.
drreus (2 syl.), eos. a son of ΡόΙόρε, king of Pisa,nnd Hippbdi·
mia. Being suspected by his father of the murder of Chry·
elppus, a natural son oi Pelopem hedmhuxv'ystheus (s eph),
kingof Mycena, whose daughter, herbpesbmm'wbtwl

 

Δ

